Welcome to OpenTimelineIO's documentation!
==================================================

Overview
--------

The OpenTimelineIO (OTIO) project aims to solve modern VFX and Post Production workflow challenges like conform, project migration, and interchange across software and platforms in a reliable, open source and reproducible manner. 

OpenTimelineIO is:

* :doc:`an interchange file format for editorial cut information. <tutorials/otio-file-format-specification>`
* :doc:`an ecosystem of tools and integrations. <intros/integrations>`
* :doc:`an cross platform API for timeline data. <cxx/bridges>`

You can think of OTIO as a modern Edit Decision List (EDL) that also includes an API for reading, writing, and
manipulating editorial data. 

OpenTimelineIO’s API's and language bindings allows application developers to integrate OpenTimelineIO support into their products, 
and allows studios and developers to build an ecosystem of compatible pipeline tools. 

See our OTIO fundamentals guide, and intros for [Creatives](intros/creatives.md), Pipeline Architects, Integrators and Developers, and our FAQs. 

OpenimelineIO is a [Academy Software Foundation](https://www.aswf.io) incubation project.


Links
---------
`OpenTimelineIO Home Page <http://opentimeline.io/>`_

`OpenTimelineIO Discussion Group <https://lists.aswf.io/g/otio-discussion>`_

Intro
------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 0
   :caption: Intro

   intros/intro.md
   intros/integrations.md
   intros/creatives.md
   intros/pipeline.md
   intros/integrators.md


User Tutorials
--------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 0
   :caption: User Tutorials

   user_tutorials/sample_media.md
   user_tutorials/roundtripping.md


Python API
----------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Python API

   fundamentals/feature-matrix
   fundamentals/otio-timeline-structure
   fundamentals/time-ranges
   fundamentals/spatial-coordinates


File Format Specifications
--------------------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: File Format Specifications

   tutorials/otio-filebundles
   tutorials/otio-file-format-specification


Dev Tutorials
-------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Dev Tutorials

   tutorials/adapters
   tutorials/architecture
   tutorials/contributing
   tutorials/write-an-adapter
   tutorials/write-a-media-linker
   tutorials/write-a-hookscript
   tutorials/write-a-schemadef
   tutorials/developing-a-new-schema
   tutorials/versioning-schemas

Use Cases
------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Use Cases

   use-cases/animation-shot-frame-ranges
   use-cases/conform-new-renders-into-cut
   use-cases/shots-added-removed-from-cut

API References
--------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :caption: API References

   python_reference

   cxx/bridges.md
   cxx/cxx.md
   cxx/older.md

Schema Reference
----------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Schema Reference

   tutorials/otio-file-format-specification
   tutorials/otio-serialized-schema
   tutorials/otio-serialized-schema-only-fields

Autogenerated Plugin Reference
------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Plugins Reference

   tutorials/otio-plugins.md


Indices and tables
------------------

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
